


analgwst(1)      U.S. Geological Survey (wrdapp)      analgwst(1)


NAME
       analgwst - A set of programs that calculate analytical solutions for
                  one-, two-, and three-dimensional solute transport in
                  ground-water systems with uniform flow

       The individual programs are:

       finite(1) - One-dimensional solute transport in a finite system
       seminf(1) - One-dimensional solute transport in a semi-infinite
                      system
       point2(1) - Two-dimensional solute transport in an infinite system
                      with a continuous point source
       stripf(1) - Two-dimensional solute transport in a finite-width
                      system with a finite-width solute source
       stripi(1) - Two-dimensional solute transport in an infinite-width
                      system with a finite-width solute source
       gauss(1)  - Two-dimensional solute transport in an infinite-width
                      system with solute source having a gaussian
                      concentration distribution
       point3(1) - Three-dimensional solute transport in an infinite system
                      with a continuous point source
       point3_mod(1) - Point3 program modified to reproduce result as
                       described in Wexler (1992a), page 49.
       patchf(1) - Three-dimensional solute transport in a finite-width and
                      finite-height system with a finite-width and finite-
                      height source
       patchi(1) - Three-dimensional solute transport in an infinite-width
                      and infinite-height system with a finite-width and
                      finite-height source

ABSTRACT
       Analytical solutions to the advective-dispersive solute-transport
       equation are useful in predicting the fate of solutes in ground
       water. Computer programs that compute the analytical solutions
       compiled from available literature or derived by E.J. Wexler are
       provided for a variety of systems and boundary conditions.

HISTORY
       Version 1.1 1996/04/03 - All programs have been restructured to a
       consistent coding format and style.

DATA REQUIREMENTS
       Each program requires data on advective velocity, dispersion
       coefficient, spatial information, temporal information, and boundary
       concentrations.  Optional data may include a first-order solute-
       decay coefficient.

OUTPUT OPTIONS
       Output is the calculated concentrations at specified points in time
       and space. A plotting option exists to view the output as graphs.

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
       The computer programs are written in Fortran 77 with the following
       extensions: use of include files and reference to compiler-dependent



                           04 June 1997                         1





analgwst(1)      U.S. Geological Survey (wrdapp)      analgwst(1)


       system date and time routines. The computer programs were originally
       written for a Prime minicomputer but all programs should run on IBM-
       compatible personal computers with minor modifications as described
       in Wexler (1992a). The plot routines are written with Computer
       Associates' DISSPLA library references.  Generally, the programs are
       easily installed on most computer systems that have access to the
       DISSPLA graphics library.  Alternatively, graphics can be disabled
       and data can be easily extracted from the program output and plotted
       using graphic presentation programs. The programs have been used on
       UNIX-based computers.

DOCUMENTATION
       Wexler, E.J., 1992a, Analytical solutions for one-, two-, and three-
          dimensional solute transport in ground-water systems with uniform
          flow: U.S. Geological Survey Techniques of Water-Resources
          Investigations, book 3, chap. B7, 190 p.

       Wexler, E.J., 1992b, Analytical solutions for one-, two-, and three-
          dimensional solute transport in ground-water systems with uniform
          flow -- Supplemental Report: Source codes for computer programs
          and sample data sets: U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report
          92-78, 3 p., 1 computer diskette.

TRAINING
       Some of the programs are introduced in the class Ground-Water
       Solute-Transport Concepts for Field Investigations (GW2005TC),
       offered annually at the USGS National Training Center.

CONTACTS
       Operation:
          U.S. Geological Survey
          Office of Ground Water
          Thomas E. Reilly
          411 National Center
          Reston, VA 20192

          tereilly@usgs.gov

       Distribution:
          U.S. Geological Survey
          Hydrologic Analysis Software Support Team
          David Boldt
          437 National Center
          Reston, VA 20192

          h2osoft@usgs.gov

       Official versions of U.S. Geological Survey water-resources analysis
       software are available for electronic retrieval via the World Wide
       Web (WWW) at:

                  http://water.usgs.gov/software/

       and via anonymous File Transfer Protocol (FTP) from:



                           04 June 1997                         2





analgwst(1)      U.S. Geological Survey (wrdapp)      analgwst(1)


                  water.usgs.gov (path: /pub/software).

       The WWW page and anonymous FTP directory from which the ANALGWST
       software can be retrieved are, respectively:

                  http://water.usgs.gov/software/analgwst.html
                                --and--
                  /pub/software/ground_water/analgwst

















































                           04 June 1997                         3


