


point2(1)        U.S. Geological Survey (wrdapp)        point2(1)


NAME
       point2 - An analytical solution for two-dimensional ground-water
                solute transport in an infinite system with uniform flow
                and a continuous point source

ABSTRACT
       The program POINT2 computes the analytical solution to the two-
       dimensional solute-transport equation for an infinite system with a
       continuous point source.

METHOD
       The computer program calculates the concentration for the two-
       dimensional system based on the equation given in Wexler (1992a, p.
       27). The concentration can be calculated for different times and
       spatial locations.

HISTORY
       Version 1.1 1996/04/03 - Code restructuring and clean up: use of
          consistent spacing; use of upper and lower case variable names;
          statement labels renumbered; comment statements altered to be
          consistent; use of Hollerinth data in FORMAT statements removed;
          all variables and routines declared; duplicate code placed in new
          routines; interactive prompting for graphics output devices
          added.  Bug fixed in contour routine related to contours at the
          left edge of the plot.

       Version 1.0 1990/04/03 - Initial published version.

DATA REQUIREMENTS
       The program requires data on advective velocity, dispersion
       coefficient, spatial information, temporal information, and boundary
       concentrations.  Optional data may include a first-order solute-
       decay coefficient.

OUTPUT OPTIONS
       Output is the calculated concentrations at specified points in time
       and space. A plotting option exists to view the output as graphs.

SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
       pgm_name is written in Fortran 77 with the following extensions:
       use of include files and reference to compiler-dependent system date
       and time routines.  The program requires the file glq.pts
       (provided), which contains normalized roots and weights of the
       Legendre polynomials.  A script program is provided to facilitate
       connection of the program with the glq.pts file.  Graphics are coded
       using Computer Associates' DISSPLA library references.  Generally,
       the program is easily installed on most computer systems that have
       access to the DISSPLA graphics library.  Alternatively, graphics can
       be disabled and data can be easily extracted from the program output
       and plotted using graphic presentation programs.  The code has been
       used on UNIX-based computers.

DOCUMENTATION
       Wexler, E.J., 1992a, Analytical solutions for one-, two-, and three-



                           04 June 1997                         1





point2(1)        U.S. Geological Survey (wrdapp)        point2(1)


          dimensional solute transport in ground-water systems with uniform
          flow: U.S. Geological Survey Techniques of Water-Resources
          Investigations, book 3, chap. B7, 190 p.

       Wexler, E.J., 1992b, Analytical solutions for one-, two-, and three-
          dimensional solute transport in ground-water systems with uniform
          flow -- Supplemental Report: Source codes for computer programs
          and sample data sets: U.S. Geological Survey Open-File Report
          92-78, 3 p., 1 computer diskette.

TRAINING
       Some of the programs are introduced in the class Ground-Water
       Solute-Transport Concepts for Field Investigations (GW2005TC),
       offered annually at the USGS National Training Center.

CONTACTS
       Operation:
          U.S. Geological Survey
          Office of Ground Water
          Thomas E. Reilly
          411 National Center
          Reston, VA 20192

          tereilly@usgs.gov

       Distribution:
          U.S. Geological Survey
          Hydrologic Analysis Software Support Team
          David Boldt
          437 National Center
          Reston, VA 20192

          h2osoft@usgs.gov

       Official versions of U.S. Geological Survey water-resources analysis
       software are available for electronic retrieval via the World Wide
       Web (WWW) at:

                  http://water.usgs.gov/software/

       and via anonymous File Transfer Protocol (FTP) from:

                  water.usgs.gov (path: /pub/software).

       The WWW page and anonymous FTP directory from which the ANALGWST
       software can be retrieved are, respectively:

                  http://water.usgs.gov/software/analgwst.html
                                --and--
                  /pub/software/ground_water/analgwst







                           04 June 1997                         2


